LOGO
of Assembly Draft

DETAILED PROJECT REPORT (DPR)

For Roll-Out of National e-Vidhan Application(NeVA)

In Name of Legislative Assembly/Council Project Tentative Outlay: Rs XX,XX,XX,XXX

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 1 of 44

Page No Table of Contents Sr No Content

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

INTRODUCTION ABOUT THE PROJECT

BACKGROUNDOF THE PROJECT

FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES

PROJECT BRIEF

STAKEHOLDERS OF THE PROJECT AT STATE LEVEL

OVERVIEW OF THE ONLINE SYSTEM

ONLINE SYSTEM (TO-BE)

PROJECT EXECUTION& ESTIMATED COST

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 2 of 44

1. Introduction about the Project

1.1 Introduction National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA), a Mission Mode Project, a part

of Digital India is a scheme to digitize and make the functioning of State Legislatures paperless.

In this Project, the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs is the Nodal Ministry. This Project is in line with

the "Go Green" initiative of the Government of India. The Speaker,

Assembly/Council Name is the Executing Authority for NeVA Project

in Assembly/Council Name.

1.2 Aim of the Project:

This project aims at providing computer facilities and infrastructure

in the office of the Hon'ble Speaker/ Chairman, Hon'ble Deputy Speaker/ Chairman, Secretary and senior officers, setting up of Local Area Network/ Wide Area Network infrastructure, e-Mail/ Internet

empowerment/ e- facilitation center for Members, electronic laying of

papers, creating of dynamic web site of the State Legislative Assemblies, computerization of all the branches of the State/ UTs Legislatures including Reporter's Branch, Legislative Branch, Editing Branch, Question Branch, Committee Branches, Library reference Services, Members Amenities and Service Branch.

•

In addition, setting up of Video Conferencing Infrastructure, Digital Library for storing the past records in digital format shall be

encouraged.

•

In order to provide training and assistance to the Members, a NeVA

Kendra (e Facilitation Center) will be set up at each location under

the Nodal Officer.

• Multipurpose touch screen panels will be installed for each Member in the House.

• Facility of Video Conferencing.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 3 of 44

It also aims at to assist the Members of the State Legislature to use the

latest ICT tools for preparing themselves for participation in the

legislative debates more effectively. This also aimed at providing tools in

the hands of members to be in contact with the citizen of their Legislative Constituency. This will provide a platform to the citizen to submit their

grievances and demand to their respective elected representatives in

order to resolve the problem quickly.

2. BACKGROUND OF PROJECT

2.1 Background of Project National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) is one of the 44 Mission Mode Projects (MMPs) under the Digital India Programme (DIP) under the State category. The Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs (MoPA), Government

of India is the Nodal Department for National e-Vidhan Application

(NeVA) MMP.National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) is to be implemented

in all the States/UTs Legislativelocations.

The Aim/Objective of National e-Vidhan Application

is

electronic flow of information, electronic laying of documents on the Table of the House and electronic information exchange among all the

stakeholders to create paperless legislature in the country. This will also

provide Data analytics, Information processing and comparative analysis

of the data of all the State Legislatures. The electronic delivery of services

to its key stakeholder i.e. the Members of the State Legislatures is the

one of the key mission of National e-Vidhan Application.

As per the guidelines for implementation of National e-Vidhan Application from Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India

published in March 2020, for the implementation of NeVA in the States,

each House has to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) along-with Gap Analysis of Information Technology Assets and manpower

requirement. DPR so prepared is to be submitted to MoPA after approval

from State level NeVA Implementation Committee.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 4 of 44

In view of this, survey of Assembly/ Council Name for the Gap

analysis of IT assets and networking requirements was done. Taking

cues from the DPR of MoPA and the survey of Assembly/ Council Name,

a proposal has been prepared with the estimated cost of Rs.

XX,XX,XX,XXX. Funding pattern for the project will be in the ratio of

60:40/90:10(check whichever

is applicable) between Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, GoI and Government of State/UT.

2.2 Other Basic Information of the Project:

National e-Vidhan Application

(NeVA) project

is being

implemented in the Assembly/ Council Name to automate the entire

workflow of the Assembly/ Council Name& its Secretariat. The basic

information about the project is as given below:-

Title of the Project: National e Vidhan Application (NeVA) – A Green Governance Tool for Paperless Assembly (e-Assembly to e-Democracy)

Project initiating by:Assembly/ Council Name Secretariat Background of the Assembly/Council NameSecretariat:

………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………Details of House coming into existence along with

background including no of members and districts in the State

………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 5 of 44

Name and Job Title of the key contact person (person responsible
for initiation)

Name Address Fax Landline Email Project Rollout Partners:-

i) Funding Organizations:

Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India and Government of State/UT in the ratio60:40/ 90:10.
ii) Seeker Secretariat: Assembly/Council Secretariat
iii) Mode of Implementation/ Procurement:To be opted out

of the procedures indicated in project guideline.

iv) TechnicalSupport Department: NIC State Unit Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs):-

MOU between Ministry of Parliamentary Affairsand Assembly/Council Name- The MOU will give the details of the NeVA implementation plan,

List of Items to be procured for implementation of National e-Vidhan Application Project, Roles and responsibilities of MoPA, State Legislatures

and other stakeholders.

Key Parameters used for calculating estimated cost of the project

S.N. Description Symbol Qty.

1

2

3

4

5

Number of Hon’ble Members of Legislative Assembly/Council

#Members …

Number of Employees of Assembly/Council Secretariat who will use computers

#Employees ….

Number of Branches of Assembly/Council Secretariat

# Branches …

Number of State/UT-level Accredited Media Persons

#Media

…

Expected Saving for the State/UT Legislature
due to NeVA (Rs.)

#Saving ApproxRs
XXCr/
annum National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 6 of 44

3. Functions and Duties Legislative Sabha/Parishad)

Assembly/Council Name

(Vidhan The Assembly/ Council Nameis the unicameral legislature of the Indian

state of State Name. The present strength of the Assembly/ Council is

XXX. The Legislative Assembly/ Council represents the people of State Name. The members of Assembly/ Council are directly elected by people

on the basis of universal adult franchise. They are directly elected by all

adult citizens registered as voters in the State. All men and women who

are 18 years of age and above are eligible to be included in the voters’

List. They vote to elect members of State Assembly. Members are elected

from territorial constituencies. The State is divided into as many (single

member) constituencies as the number of members to be elected. Certain

numbers of seats are reserved (if any).

In order to become a Member of Assembly/ Council a person must:

 be a citizen of India;

 have attained the age of 25 years;

 his/her name must be in voters’ list;

 must not hold any office of profit i.e.;

 Should not be a government servant.

The tenure of Assembly/ Council is five years, but the Governor can

dissolve it before the completion of its term on the advice of Chief Minister. It may be dissolved by the President in case of constitutional

emergency proclaimed under Article 356 of the Constitution.

Presiding Officer (The Speaker/Chairman)

The members of Assembly/ Council elect their Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer

is known as

the Speaker/Chairman. The Speaker/Chairman presides over the meetings of the House and

conducts its proceedings. He maintains order in the House, allow the Members to ask questions and speak. He puts Billsand other measures

to vote and announces the result of voting. The Speaker/Chairman does National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 7 of 44

not ordinarily vote at the time of voting. However, he may exercise

casting vote in case of a tie.

The Deputy Speaker/Chairman presides over the meeting during the

absence of the Speaker/Chairman. He is also elected by the Assembly

from amongst its members.

Sessions of the State Legislature The State Legislature meets at least thrice a year and the interval between

two Sessions cannot be more than six months. The Governor summons

and prorogues the Sessions of State Legislature. He addresses the Assembly/ Council at the commencement of the first Session after each

general election and at the commencement of the first Session of the year.

This Address reflects the policy statement of the government which is to

be discussed in the Legislature.

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE STATE LEGISLATURE

Law Making Function The primary function of the State Legislature is law-making. The State Legislature is empowered to make laws on State List and Concurrent List. The Parliament Assembly and the Legislative Assemblies have the

right to make the laws on the subjects mentioned in the Concurrent List.

But in case of contradiction between the Union and State law on the

subject the law made by the Union shall prevail.

Bills are of two types-Ordinary Bills and Money Bills. The Bills are

introduced in the State Legislature. After the Bill is passed by State Legislature, it is sent to the Governor for his assent. The Governor can

send back the Bill for reconsideration. When this Bill is passed again by

the Legislature, the Governor has to give his assent.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 8 of 44

Financial Powers The State Legislature keeps control over the finances of the State. A

money Bill is introduced in the Assembly. The money Bill includes

authorization of the expenditure to be incurred by the government,

imposition or abolition of taxes, borrowing, etc. The Bill is introduced by a Minister on the recommendations of the Governor. After a money Bill is

passed by the Assembly, it is sent to the Governor for his assent. The Governor cannot withhold his assent, as money Bills are introduced with

his prior approval.

Control over the Executive The State Legislature keeps control over the executive. The Council of Ministers is responsible to Assembly collectively and remains in the office

so long as it enjoys the confidence of the Assembly. The Council is

removed if the Assembly adopts a vote of no-confidence, or when it rejects

a government Bill.

In addition to the no-confidence motion, the Legislature keeps checks on

the government by asking questions and supplementary questions,

moving adjournment motions and calling attention notices.

Electoral Functions The elected Members of the Assembly are Members of the Electoral College for the election of the President of India. Thus, they have say in

the election of the President of the Republic. The Members of the Assembly also elect Members of the RajyaSabha from their respective States. In all these elections, Members of the Assembly cast their votes in

accordance with single transferable vote system.

Constitutional Functions The Constitution Amendment requires special majority of each House of

the Parliament and ratification by not less than half of the States relating

to Federal subjects. The resolution for the ratification is passed by State National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 9 of 44

Legislatures with simple majority. However, a constitutional amendment

cannot be initiated in the State Legislature.

Legislature Secretariat The Legislative Assembly/ Council Secretariat, besides providing Secretarial assistance in legislative functioning of the Hon’ble Speaker/

Chairman, caters to the multifarious requirements of the Members of Legislative Assembly/ Council with a view to rendering them timely

assistance in the discharge of their functions. The Legislative Secretariat

also takes care of the welfare of the Members and Ex-Members. Some of

the important functions are as under:-

i) To control the Executive through Questions, Motions,

Resolutions, Committees etc.

ii) To control the finances through general discussions on Budget, device of token cut on demands and discussions on Finance Bills and Appropriation Bills and

iii) To enact Legislations.

COMMITTEE SYSTEM

The enormous range and magnitude of the government activities in the

present day State has led State Legislature to shift emphasis from

lawmaking activities to supervision/control of the administration. This is

not limited only to the voting of moneys by the State Legislature but also

extends to ensure that expenditure is incurred in a prudent & specified

manner on plans and programmes approved by the Legislature and that

the objectives underlying these programmes are achieved. State Legislature as a body, however, is not in a position to undertake this

stupendous task on its own nor it is practically possible. As a matter of

fact, it cannot use the floor time for minute details nor it has enough

time for doing so. Therefore, to make Assembly/ Council surveillance

effective and more meaningful, a suitable machinery is required. The Committees are constituted to ensure this accountability of the Executive

to the Legislature. Besides, enabling more people to become associated National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 10 of 44

with the governmental processes, these also help in making use of the

experience and expertise in guiding and supervising the government's

functioning. These Committees are, therefore, referred to as "House in Miniature" or "House in Perpetuity"

At the commencement of the first Session after each general election and

thereafter before the commencement of each financial year or from time

to time when the occasion otherwise arises, different Committees of the House for specific, or general purposes are nominated by the Speaker/

Chairman.

4.PROJECT BRIEF

4.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE NeVA MMP:

The objectives of the National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) MMP

are to ensure the following:

➢ The backend computerization of all the branches of the State Legislature Secretariats in order to ensure electronic delivery of

information / data to the Members of the State Legislature and

to interact with various State Government Departments.

➢ Efficient delivery of services with improved service levels by

undertaking extensive Business Process Reengineering (BPR) of

identified services and their processes.

➢ Capacity building and training for the Members of the State Legislature, officials of the State Legislature Secretariat and

other officials of the State Government Departments by setting

up NeVA Seva Kendra (NSK), e-Learning Center in the State Legislature location.

➢ Setting up of NeVA Seva Kendra (NSK) for e-Facilitation, in all

the State Legislature to assist the Members.

➢ Development of generic, multitenancy National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) product for implementation in the National Data Centre Cloud (Meghraj).

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 11 of 44

➢ Delivery of public services (information dissemination) through

the public portals to ensure reliability, efficiency, transparency

and accountability of the Members of the State Legislature and

other State Government functionaries.

➢ Reducing the number of visits of citizen to their elected

representatives in order to get their grievances redressal.

➢ To provide e-interaction and efficient communication between

the citizen and their public representative.

➢ To enhance the perception and the image of the Members of the State Legislature and the officials of the State Government.

4.2 SCOPE OF THEPROJECT

➢ The National e-Vidhan Application MMP envisages centralized

architecture at the National level with common application

software for each of the identified services for all the State Legislatures. The application software will be hosted on the National Cloud (Meghraj). Integration across States Legislatures

would be enabled, through mandatory adherence to technical

specifications and e Governance standards.

➢ Two key aspects of the Scheme are Business Process Reengineering (BPR) and creation of databases based on eGovernance

standards

for

the purposes of

ensuring

interoperability. BPR

is

intended

to

enable process

simplification and significant value addition to Members and

citizens.

➢ The purpose of this document is to make blue prints for the

future ICT roadmap for all the State Legislatures of India in

order to make the State Legislatures - a Paperless State Legislature. A mission Mode Project under the Prime Minister’s Digital India Programme aims to achieve the following goals:

o To develop a generic National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA)

product.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 12 of 44

o To design and develop sharable databases, which can be
shared by different State Legislatures for better control,
efficient services to the Hon’ble members of the State Legislatures.

o Installation of Tablet devices for paper laying in the House.

o Business process reengineering for making the process eenable.

o Providing ICT Infrastructure in all the branches of State Legislatures.

o To setup robust Network Infrastructure facilities with
backup for high speed LAN/WAN network, secured wifi
network, Audio/Video telephony and other Network service
for the use of Members of State Legislatures.

o Standardization of procedure to receive all the information in
the State Government

from all

format

electronic Departments.

o Setting up of NeVA Seva Kendra (NSK) e-Facilitation Centre

in each State Legislatures.

o Setting up of NeVA Seva Kendra (NSK) for e-Learning for

15/25 Members in each State Legislatures.

o Setting up of Media Centre for Accredited Journalists.

o Setting up of State Project Monitoring Unit (SPMU) at each State Legislature.

o To deploy necessary Hardware/access devices in both the
houses of Legislature for electronic delivery of Services such
as electronic laying of all the assembly papers on the table of
the House in e-book format.

o To provide standard electronic platform to all the State’s
information
for Ministries/Departments
electronic
interchange with the Legislature Secretariats

o To make all the applications user friendly and device
independent in order to increase their usage by the various
stakeholders

o To

make

mobile

friendly

public

portals

(multilingual/bilingual) for all the State Legislatures.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 13 of 44

o To develop easy to use Mobile Apps in order to access
information/data immediately required to be accessed by the Members and public at large.

o To increase the use of SMS/Email and Social media
platforms for better communication with the different
stakeholders

4.3 PROJECT OUTCOMES ENVISAGED

➢ Electronic delivery of all the Papers to be laid in the House in eBook format through the Display devises installed on the seats
of the Members.

➢ Faster communication with the citizens for redressal of their

grievances.

➢ Improvement in efficiency of the employees and reduction in

workload.

➢ Access to various Legislative databases across the States/UTs Legislatures of the country for comparative data analytics.

➢ Post project evaluation and feedback mechanism for further

improvements of the system.

➢ Better monitoring mechanism.
➢ Bring transparency in the delivery system.
➢ Faster processing of files and information resulting in efficient
working of States/UTs Legislative Secretariats and State Government Departments

4.4 AS IS and TO BE Scenario

AS-IS Scenario:-

1. There is no system in place for electronic flow of information

among the stake holders of Assembly/ Council Name.

2. There are around XX desktops/laptops in use by the employees.

The computers are mainly being used as a word processing tool

(or for any other purpose if any). Some desktops need to be

replaced.

3. For connectivity, State Wide Area Network is available. But

restructuring is required for LAN layout.

4. The Business processes of all the States/UTs legislatures are

similar in nature.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 14 of 44

Service Area As-Is Status Digital Assembly House Manual/Electronic Process Business controlling Manual/Electronic Process Assembly Reporters Manual/Electronic Process List of Business Creation Manual/Electronic Process Entry Generation & Verification Pass Requests,

Manual/Electronic Process Budget Documents viewer Manual/Electronic Process Questions Processing Manual/Electronic Process Notices Manual/Electronic Process Bills Management Manual/Electronic Process Service Area Constituency Management MIS Manual/Electronic Process As-Is Status Legislation MIS
Proceedings MIS

/ House Manual/Electronic Process User Management Manual/Electronic Process Committees MIS

Manual/Electronic Process Manual/Electronic Process Library MIS

Accounts MIS

Procurement & Stores Manual/Electronic Process Manual/Electronic Process Public Website As per/ Not as per guidelines of
GIGW

Mobile based Apps Available/ Not Available Employee services & Employee Claims / eOffice Manual/Electronic Process

4.5 TO-BE Scenario:-

➢ Legislative Assembly/ Council will have electronic processes

and information flow among the different stakeholders. All Branches of House Secretariat will be NeVA enabled.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 15 of 44

➢ All Legislative Members will be able to submit all types of Notices and letters to the respective Legislative Secretariats in

electronic format only.

➢ All the papers will be laid in the House in electronic format.

➢ Information flow between by State Legislative Secretariat and all

the Government departments will be electronic.

➢ All the present processes in Legislative Secretariats will be reengineered as per the requirements of the National e-Vidhan Application.

➢ Digital signature/e-Sign will be used for digital signing of all the

documents for submission and transfer.

➢ A common Content Management Framework (CMF) will be used

to develop State of the Art GIGW complaint Web portal for

dissemination of information to all the citizens.

4.6 List of proposed Services under NeVA project Following are the services pertaining to Assembly/Council and its Secretariat. These services will be included in the NeVA Project Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Digital House ❖ Speaker Pad:

Sr.

No.

1.

 To view the Business and List of Members, whose Notices are received?
 To communicate with the Secretary,

Minister or any other Member.

❖ Members Pad:

 To view all the documents laid in the House in e-Book format.

 To send request to the Chair to speak

on a particular subject.

 To send and receive notes between Members.

 To display photo/video of matter of
importance with the

urgent public
permission of the Chair.

❖ Minister Pad:

 To view hand written notes sent by the Secretary/officials.

 Facility to view supplementary replies

from the Departments.

❖ Speech Pad:

 Digital e-Book viewer for facilitating of National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 16 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

2.

Business Controlling

3.

Reporters Branch

4.

Synopsis Branch

5.

Editorial Branch

long speeches by the Ministers.
❖ To record the Speaker’s time and segregation
of data Member wise, Party wise and Subject
wise.

❖ Facility to control e-voting.
❖ Display of e-voting results.
❖ Facility to view List of Business, Questions
and their answers, all other papers laid on
the Table of the House including Bills.

❖ Facility to view Session videos.
❖ Facility to listen Session Digital Audio Files.
❖ Facility to enter verbatim text based on the

time slots allotted to each Reporter.

❖ Facility of merging of verbatim text of
different languages among the Reporters.
❖ Facility to transfer verbatim report to the Chief Reporter.

❖ Facility to view verbatim records of any other

sittings.

❖ Consolidate and prepare the final version of

the Day’s proceedings.

❖ Publishing of Days proceedings on the public

portal in Word/PDF format.

❖ Sending of verbatim records to the respective Members in electronic form for making any
correction.

❖ Sending the final verbatim file to the synopsis

and editorial branch.

❖ To access the verbatim prepared by the Reporters.

❖ To prepare the Days preceding summary in

the form of Synopsis.

❖ To publish the synopsis in the both the

languages on the public portal.

❖ To receive the Day’s proceedings in electronic

format from the Reporters branch.

❖ To receive consolidated e-file of all the Questions and their answers.

❖ To edit and prepare final edited version of Days proceedings called Official Debate.

❖ To send the final official debates to the
printing section for printing of minimum
number of copies for keeping in the Library
and official records.

❖ To prepare electronic index of the official

debates

❖ To publish official debates with

their
electronic index in order to provide search on
various parameters.

Table Office

6.
National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 17 of 44

❖ List of Business (LOB) preparation.

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

❖ Publishing

LOB
Book/PDF/Word/Text/xml format.

of

❖ Preparation of Bulletin Part-I.
❖ Publishing Part-I
Book/PDF/Word/Text/xml format.

of Bulletin

ein

e7.

Question

❖ Consolidation and finalization of Bulletin Part-II.
❖ Publishing

of Bulletin Part-II

in

eBook/PDF/Word/Text/xml format Question Branch:
❖ Online/offline entry of Question Notices by Members.

❖ Diary of Questions.
❖ Typing of Question texts.
❖ Sending provisional Questions

to

the

respective State Government Departments.

❖ Admissibility of Questions.
❖ Clubbing of Questions.
❖ Balloting of Questions notices received to

decide the priority of the Members.

❖ Preparation of final Question List for Starred

and Un-starred Questions.

❖ To publish Questions and their answers on
the public portal after the Question Hour.
Respective State Government Departments:
❖ To accept and prepare replies

the

to

questions.

❖ Forward the questions to other departments
under intimation to the Question branch.
❖ Submit the replies to the finally selected

questions.

❖ Update the replies till one hour before on the

date of question.

❖ Preparing probable supplementary questions
of a Starred Question and their replies for the
use of the concerned Ministers.

Minister:
❖ To access replies to the starred and Unstarred question well in advance.

❖ To view the supplementary questions and

their replies.

❖ To receive hand written notes from the
department officials during the Question Hour.
Secretary:
❖ To access replies to the starred and Unstarred question well in advance.

❖ To brief the Ministers.
❖ To prepare hand written notes

on
supplementary questions asked for the use of National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 18 of 44

Sr.

No.

8.

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Members Secured Portal Minister.

❖ Online submission of all types of Notices.
❖ To access replies to the starred questions one
hour before the Question Hour in order to
prepare the supplementary questions to be
asked.

❖ To view their Pay slip, Payments to Bank,
TA/DA Bill, Medical Bill, Electricity & Water Bill, Telephone Bill etc.

❖ To view the various Committee Meeting

schedules and their Agenda.

❖ To view the Study Visit, Tour details and their

itinerary.

❖ To view various Committee Reports.
❖ To view the draft reports prepared by the

concerned Branch.

❖ To submit their objections/changes desired

in the draft report.

❖ To communicate with the State Legislature Department.

❖ Use of Group SMS/Group e-mail

for
communicating with the various groups of
people.

❖ Submission and updation of Member’s Profile

alongwith photograph.

❖ Creating

and

customized
photo/picture gallery of images and videos for
the citizens.

updating

9.

Bills Management

❖ To submit request for issue of passes for their

personal staff.

❖ To submit request for visitors passes.
Government Departments:
❖ Uploading of Bills to be introduced.
❖ Uploading all other subsequent versions of

the Bills until Assented.

❖ Scrutiny & suggestions and modification in Bill.

Legislative Branch:
❖ To maintain Bills database.
❖ To update the various Dates as the Bill

progresses.

❖ Sending the Bill for Assent to the Governor.
❖ Sending the Bill to the Centre, in case Parliament Nod is required.

❖ Sending the Bill to various Committees as

desired by the House.

Committee Branch:
❖ Seeking public opinion/suggestions on the

bills.

❖ Scrutiny of public opinion/suggestions.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 19 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

❖ Placing public opinion/suggestions in the
form of Summary for deliberation of the Committee.

❖ To finalize the Report on Bill as finalized by

the Chairman of the Committee.

Citizens:
❖ Online submission of opinion/suggestions on

bills.

Members of State Legislatures:
❖ Scrutiny and suggesting amendments in bill

document.

10.

Constituency Management Members:
❖ Updating Member’s Calendar (Meeting, Tour,

Visit, Public Appointments etc.)

❖ Updating Contact

details

of

various

functionaries.

❖ Viewing the public grievances and forwarding

to the concerned authorities.

❖ Sending reminders in case of delay.
❖ Sending bulk SMS/e-mail to the citizens.
❖ Submitting List of works/proposals

for
execution under MLA/MLC Local Area Development Fund.

❖ To monitor and review the progress of works

running in the constituency.

Citizen:
❖ Online submission of public grievances

through Web and Mobile App.

❖ Online submission of demand by the public.
Other Government Departments:
❖ Updating current status of public grievances.
❖ Updating current status of public demands.
❖ Submission of reply on the subject forwarded

by Member.

❖ Updating Monthly

financial and Physical
progress of various Projects/works new and
ongoing in their constituency.

11.

Legislation

12

Committees Legislative Branch:
❖ Summoning of Session;
❖ Provisional Calendar of Session;
❖ Special Mentions;
❖ Resolutions;
❖ No-day-yet motions;
❖ Matters of Urgent Public importance;
❖ Zero Hour.
Committee Secretariat:
❖ Constitution of Committees;
❖ Constitution of Sub-Committees;
❖ Creation of e-files;

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 20 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

❖ Meeting schedule;
❖ Tour/Visit itinerary;
❖ Maintenance of Membership of Committees;
❖ Preparation of Committee Reports;
❖ Correspondence with concerned Government Departments;

❖ Scrutiny of replies by the Departments;
❖ Reminders to Government Departments;
❖ SMS/e-mail integration;
❖ Laying of Reports on the Table of the House;
❖ Facilitating Action Taken Reports;
❖ Calling Public opinion on a particular subject;
❖ Examination and processing of the materials;
❖ Preparing Oral Questionnaire

for

examination;

❖ Maintaining verbatim reports of various

meetings;

❖ Uploading all the related information/data on

the public portal.

Government Departments:
❖ Electronic submission of all

types of

documents/reports;

❖ To provide online replies to queries received

from Committee Secretariat.

Members of Committee:
❖ To view meeting Notices, Tour

itinerary

online;

❖ Online receipt of study material sent by Committee Secretariat;

❖ Online scrutiny of replies submitted by Government Departments.
Member Amenities Branch:
❖ Member’s personal details, contact details;
❖ Allotment of Government accommodation;
❖ Providing electricity/water connection;
❖ Providing Telephone/Mobile and Internet

facility;

❖ Quick redressal of Members complaints and

requests.

Members:
❖ Online submission of complaints/requests.
MSA Branch:
❖ Preparation of Salary Bills of Members and

publishing of Pay slips;

❖ Online receipt of TA/DA Bills, Medical Bills;
❖ Processing of reimbursement of Bills (TA/DA,
Medical, Telephone, Electricity, Water, House Rent, Mobile, Internet etc.
Store Inventory application:

13. Member Amenities (MA)

14. Members Salary
and Allowances
(MSA)

15.

Procurement National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 21 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

and Stores

❖ Procurement of items;
❖ Receipt of online requests;
❖ Issue of items;
❖ Payment to vendors;
❖ Automatic updation of store inventory;
❖ Generation of various Registers/Reports.
State Legislature Secretariat Branches:
❖ Online request for issue of different items.

16.

Digital Archives ❖ Creation of online searchable repository for
all official Debates, Committee Reports,
Action Taken Reports, Bills etc. since the
inception of the State Legislatures.

17.

Library

etc.,

Library:
❖ Automation of all the Library processes
including procurement of Books, Journals,
Periodicals Catalogue
preparation, Stock entry, Issue &Return of Books, Online Reminders to Users for delay
in returning of Books, Lost Books, Receipt of Fine and
submission, SMS/e-mail
integration, Search and retrieval of digital
contents.

Online

its Members Reference Service:
❖ Online receipt of requests for information;
❖ Culling out of material from different sources;
❖ Uploading of electronic material
the

in Member’s Inbox;

❖ Integration of SMS/e-mail facility.
Assurance Branch:
❖ Culling out of Assurances from verbatim

records;

❖ Creation of database for assurances culled

18.

Government Assurances

out;
❖ Online

intimation

to Government Departments;
❖ Integration of SMS/e-mail;
❖ Preparation of Assurance Status Report for

concerned

the

the consideration of Committee;

❖ Sending Reminders

to Government Departments;

❖ Online information regarding extension of

time granted;

❖ Laying of Assurances Fulfillment Report in

the House.

Government Departments:
❖ Online access to the Assurances Database

belonging to a particular Department;

❖ Updation of Status of Assurances;
❖ Submission of request for extension of time &

dropping and transfer;

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 22 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

19. Mobile APPs

20.

e-office
implementation

❖ Submission of compliance Report.
Mobile App for House Business:
❖ Session calendar;
❖ List of Business;
❖ Paper Laid;
❖ Bulletin Part-I and Bulletin Part-II;
❖ Synopsis of Debates;
❖ Verbatim Proceedings;
❖ Question List;
❖ Question/Answer Search;
❖ Government Assurances Search;
❖ Members Search;
❖ Bills Search;
❖ Contact Details

of State Legislature Secretariat.

for App Grievances/Demand Mobile Submission and Management:
❖ A two way communication facility between
the citizen and the public representatives;
❖ Online submission of grievances or demands;
❖ View of citizens demand/grievances by public

representatives;

❖ Forwarding of demands/grievances to various

official groups via mobile app itself;

❖ Updation of Status of demands/grievances by

various official groups;
the

❖ View Status

of

pending

demands/grievances by the Members;

Mobile App for Budget:
❖ Access to all Budget related documents

(Financial year wise) in e-Book format;

❖ Search on Budget documents.
Mobile App for e-Constituency:
❖ GIS based e-Constituency App;
❖ Constituency population, boundary,
❖ To view Grievances map based on the
issues/grievances/demands

number
received from the citizens& disposed.
all

implementation State

in

of

e-office Legislatures:
❖ Employees database;
❖ Service Book;
❖ Leave Management;
❖ Loans and Advances;
❖ Leave Travel Allowances;
❖ Court Cases;
❖ e-File;
❖ TA/DA claim;
❖ Supplementary Bills;
❖ Income Tax Returns;

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 23 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

21.

Public Portal

22.

User Management

23.

Centralized Pass Cell

❖ Allotment of official Vehicles;
❖ Government Accommodation;
❖ Aadhaar Based Attendance of Employees.
❖ Content Management Framework

(CMF)
based Web Portal for State Legislatures for
dissemination of information to the public;
❖ Live Webcast of House proceedings will be

available on public portal.

For Super Administrator:
❖ Creation of various User types / Sub-types;
❖ Creation of
modules;

functional modules / Sub-

❖ Approval of logins for all high level users like Members, Secretaries etc.;

❖ Creation of Roles and allocation of Roles to

users.

For Self Service:
❖ Members/Officers can register themselves
with Aadhaar Number and Mobile Number
making it easy for building the user base;
❖ Users can request for validation and approval

by higher officials;

❖ User name and password will be sent on
after

registered mobile number/e-mail
authentication;

❖ Specific Dashboard for each user roles;
❖ In addition to Aadhaar and password based
validation, officials can authenticate their
work by digital signature certificates.

❖ Issue of identity cards to Members;
❖ Issue of identity cards to employees;
❖ Online receipt of request for issue of identity
cards to the officials of various Government Departments;

❖ Online request for issue of visitors passes;
❖ Online request for issue of identity cards to

accredited press/media journalists;

❖ Issue of Parking Labels to the Members and

others;

❖ Online Police verification process for issue of

various types of entry passes;

❖ Data analytics on various types of entry

passes.

Security Officials:
❖ Verification of entry passes by reading QR

code or Pass code;

❖ Provision of allowing and denying entry to the

pass holders;

❖ Viewing list of people issued visitor gallery

passes (Time slot wise/Date wise).

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 24 of 44

Activities Proposed Services/Parameters Sr.

No.

24. Media Desk

❖ A Media Desk in each State Legislature will
be set up. A set of 25 computers with
LAN/Internet connectivity shall be provided
for the journalists for covering the house
proceedings. This will facilitate faster printing
of the news relating to the Business in the House in the Print Media.

4.7 Stakeholder Analysis Roles and Responsibilities of various stakeholder of NeVA project is
worked out as below:

Stakeholder Group Governor Roles and Responsibiliti
es Directions Speaker/Deputy Speaker/
Deputy Chairman Chairman/

Members of Legislative Assembly/
Council
(MLAs/ MLCs)

 Executing the
business
of Legislative Assembly/
Council Interactions
with Assembly/
Council Public

and High High High Level Influence

of Engagement/Communi
cation Strategy Assembly/

Addressing Council Running the business of Legislative Council Assembly/

of Interactions
MLAs/MLCs
with Assembly/ Council and Public Secretary,
Council Assembly/

 Executing the
business of Legislative Assembly/
Council High Running the business of Legislative Council Assembly/

 Medium Day-to-day- assistance in Employees of Assembly/
Council Secretariat Assistance
executing
business Legislative Assembly/
Council

in
the
of

functioning of Assembly/
Council Secretariat

of

-Reply
questions/queries to Assembly/ Council and Committees
-Directions to departments
MLCs
MLA’s/
w.r.t.
requests Minister Implementing
plans
programmes

and High Chief
/Ministers Administrative Secretaries Implementing
plans
programmes

and Medium Reply of questions/queries

to Assembly/ Council and Committees National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 25 of 44

Government Departments Undertakings/
Corporations Citizens

and Implementing
plans
programmes

and Medium Implementation of plans
and programmes approved
by the Legislature Requests Medium Interactions with MLAs/
MLCs National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 26 of 44

5. STAKEHOLDERS OF THE PROJECT AT

STATE LEVEL

5.1 House Committee for e-Governance & General Purpose

A House Committee has been constituted comprising of Hon’ble Members

of State Legislature under the Chairmanship of Hon’ble Speaker for

monitoring the NeVA project and other e-Governance issues in the State.The composition of the House Committee of NeVAis as follows:

1. Hon’ble Speaker/Dy. Speaker Chairman/Dy. Chairman

2. Member State Legislature – 1
3. Member State Legislature – 2
4. Member State Legislature – 3
5. Member State Legislature – 4
6. Member State Legislature – 5
7. Member State Legislature – 6
8. Member State Legislature – 7
9. Secretary in Charge (e-Governance/IT)
10. Secretary, State Legislature
11. Any other person nominated by the Speaker/ Chairman

- Chairman
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Member Secretary Member Member Member Member Member Member Member Member

-

The role and responsibilities of Committee are following:

• To review the progress of implementation of NeVA in the State Legislature.

• To recommend the changes in Rules and Procedure, if any

required for implementation of NeVA in State Legislature.

• To discuss and suggest overcoming the issues being faced by

various State GovernmentDepartments

in

transferring

electronic documents using NeVA.

• To make Framework for Capacity Building/Training on NeVA

for Members of State Legislature, Officials of State Legislature

and State Government Departments.

• Awareness generation and Media plan.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 27 of 44

5.2 State Legislature Project Management Unit (SPMU)

Each State Legislature will have a State Legislature Project Management Unit, mainly responsible for reviewing the financial and

technical progress of the project. Its composition is as prescribed in the

PIB Memorandum.

Composition

1. Secretary (State Legislature)
2. Secretary(IT) or his nominee not below the rank Chairman Member

of Joint Secretary

3. Secretary (Finance Dept.) or his nominee not Member

below the rank of Joint Secretary

4. Secretary (Budget-line Nodal Dept. for State Legislature) or his nominee not below the rank
of Joint Secretary Member

5. Secretary Parliamentary Affairs Dept.
6. State Informatics Officer, NIC
7. Representative of NICSI at State

8. Joint Secretary/ Director/Deputy Secretary

(State Legislature)

9. Any other person nominated by Chairman Member Member Member
(if available)
Member Secretary Special Invitee Role and Responsibilities

• Approval on the changes required in the State Legislature’s Business Processes (BPR).

• Amendments, if any required in Act(s), Rules, and Regulations for

implementation of NeVA in State Legislature.

• Maintenance and Replacement of ICT equipments on taking over

the Project after completion.

• Laying down the respective duties and obligations of each entity
including that of State Legislature Secretariats and other State Government Departments in respect of each service to be made
available electronically.

• Approval on issuance of necessary government orders and

notifications for enablement of e-Vidhan MMP services.

• Recommendation on release of funds.

• Monthly review of the technical and financial progress of the

project.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 28 of 44

• Address any inter-departmental issues if required.

• Overall guidance and directions for speedy implementation of the

e-Vidhan MMP in the State Legislature.

• Awareness / Media plan (Tag Line, Radio Jingle) / Audio & Video,

TV Slots – English, Hindi and Regional Language

5.3 Neva Seva Kendra (NSK) For E-Facilitation In order to smooth transition from present paper-based system to

total paperless system, initially we shall require a transition period and

assistance need to be provided to the members of state legislatures.

Therefore, initially the system will run in hybrid mode, where the

members will have the option to submit the notices in conventional

manner as prescribed in the rules and procedures of each state

legislature. But in order to capture all the notices/information in

electronic form, we need to set-up e-facilitation center at each State

legislature location.

5.4 Media Desk - Accredited Journalists It is proposed to set up a Media Desk in each State Legislature. A set of

XXcomputers with LAN/Internet connectivity shall be provided for the

journalists who cover the house proceedings. This will facilitate faster

printing of the news relating to the Business in the House in the Print Media.

5.5 National Informatics Centre (NIC)

The National Informatics Centre (NIC) is the premier science
& technology organization under Ministryof Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India and providing network
backbone and e-Governance support to Central Government, State Governments, UT Administrations, Districts and other Government
bodies. It offers a wide range of ICT services including Nationwide Communication Network for decentralized planning, improvement in Government services and wider transparency of national and local Governments. At each State Level a NeVA Implementation and Support Services Committee may be formed under the Chairmanship of State Informatics Officer (SIO) to provide all technical support and services National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 29 of 44

required to the State Legislature and other State Government Departments.

Responsibilities of the NIC: )

• NIC will nominate one officer (Principal Systems Analyst or
above) as NIC Coordinator for successful implementation of National e-Vidhan Application MMP.

• Technical support will be provided by the NIC to the National eVidhan Application (NeVA) MMP as it is having the expertise in
the field & has successfully implemented e-Vidhan project in Himachal Pradesh.

• All bills will be sent by the respective State Legislature after
duly verified by the respective NIC StateCoordinator to the
NICSI New Delhi for passing & payment.

• The services of the SIOs mayalso` be utilized for implementation

of National e-Vidhan Application MMP.

• NIC will Provide High Speed NICNET Connectivity for the

smooth and un-interrupted NeVA operation

• Setting up of Web casting Infrastructure at all the State Legislature Locations and ensuring un-interrupted Webcast
from all the State Legislature Locations.

6. OVERVIEW OF THE ONLINE SYSTEM
6.1. OBJECTIVES OF THE SYSTEM

The objective of the proposed application “e-Vidhan” is to automate the
processes of LegislativeAssembly/ Council, Committees & Members to
achieve the followinggoals:

• To identify and suggest an appropriate process re-engineering model

• To

identify systems enabled mechanism

that

reduces and

substantially removes redundant processes which otherwise delay

flow of information among various stakeholders.

• To identify and suggest an appropriate technology model that is both

user friendly and which withstands the tough field conditions

•

Induction of transparency and accountability in operations

• Electronic security and control of confidential data

• Dissemination of information as per requirement

• MIS for easy monitoring and quick decision making

• To improve efficiency in working

• To improve decision making in view of better reporting mechanisms National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 30 of 44

• To help carry various analytical studies by providing the data

instantaneously

• Significant reduction in manual records/register maintenance

• Elimination of duplicate and inconsistent record keeping

• To reduce the dependency

• To Support the organization in meeting its business and legal

requirements

• To ensure better implementation of Schemes

• To Provides cost effective service and quality of the same

• To provide a friendly, speedier and efficient interface

• To use less paper to save trees and implement green practices

(Go Green)

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 31 of 44

6.2. SHORT COMINGS OF THE EXISTING SYSTEM

• Redundant processes

• Classical disconnect

• Difficulty in monitoring – mainly implementation of schemes by the Government

• Dependency

• Complexity

• Delay

• Lack of Transparency

• Lack of Accountability

• Unnecessary Excess Paper Work and huge paper wastage

• Difficulty in maintaining upto date Records

• Repetitive efforts

• Wastage of Time, Money and Efforts

• Lack of information

• Lack of standardization and uniformity of the working methodology

6.3. STAKEHOLDERS/AUTOMATION OF PROCESSES

• Questions processing and answering by departments

• Assembly Business and proceedings

•

Internal working of the Assembly/ CouncilCommittees & reply by

departments

• Working of branches of the Assembly/ CouncilSecretariat

• Constituency management by MLAs/ MLCs

• Communication between the Assembly/ CouncilSecretariat and Government Departments

• Public Participation – Public Opinion on Bills, Constituency-wise Demands etc.

6.4. CHALLENGES

• Making users confident, comfortable and trusting of the tool or

technology with which they will interact.

• Acceptance

of Online Correspondence/Reports

specially by Ministers/MLAs/MLCs National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 32 of 44

• Establishing a Less-Paper Environment – using minimum papers by

all stakeholders

• Enabling e-participation of public in Government’s budget/decision

making policies

• Resistance to change –

It is normal to experience resistance whenever there is change.

Understanding that there will be resistance to change will help to

anticipate resistance, identify its sources and reasons, and modify our

efforts to manage the issues of change to ensure the success of our

change efforts. The resistant to change phenomenon can explain

much of the hesitation that occurs on the part of constituents in

moving from a paper based to a Web-based system for interacting

with government processes. Stakeholders can all have their biases

with respect to how transactions should be processed.

Digital Divide –

The digital divide refers to the separation that exists between

individuals and communities that have got used to information

technology and those that do not have such access/knowledge. As the

digital divide narrows, broader adoption of e-government becomes

possible.

• Attitudinal change in members, officers and employees

• Government process re-engineering

•

•

Information transparency Infrastructure, Skill and awareness

• Access to right information

•

Interdepartmental collaboration

6.5. ADVANTAGES OF THE SYSTEM

• Role-enabled work-flow and web-based system for automation,

standardization and uniformity of the working methodology

• Dynamic search engine which will generate several reports at click of

button

• Auto compilation of reports and queries

• Removing redundant processes which otherwise delay

flow of

information among various stakeholders National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 33 of 44

•

Induction of transparency and accountability in operations

• Electronic security and control of confidential data

• Dissemination of information as per requirement

• MIS for easy monitoring and quick decision making

•

•

Improving efficiency in working Improving decision making in view of better reporting mechanisms

• Significant reduction in manual records/register maintenance

• Elimination of duplicate and inconsistent record keeping

• Reducing the dependency

• Supporting the organization in meeting its business and legal

requirements

• Ensuring better implementation of Schemes by the Government

• Using less paper to save trees and implement green practices (Go Green)

7. ONLINE SYSTEM (TO-BE)

7.1 WEB BASED APPLICATION SOFTWARE

The online system NeVA is a role-enabled work-flow and web-based

application. This web-based application will be advanced and generic

version of the web application implemented in Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha by NIC, Himachal Pradesh.

7.2 INTERNET CONNECTIVITY AND FACILITATION

A. Internet Connectivity atAssembly/ Council Name High-Speed Internet Connectivity through NIC Network along with
back up connectivity line will be provided at the following
locations:

• Assembly/ Council– 1GBPS Leased Line with a backup lease line.

B. WiFi Internet Connectivity at Assembly/ Council Name

• WiFi Internet Connectivity through NIC Network will be provided at Assembly/ CouncilChambers.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 34 of 44

C. Digital Audio Recording System

for House Proceedings The entire proceedings of the House will be recorded digitally which

will help

the reporters

to ensure complete accuracy

in

transcription. Sometimes it so happens that several members start

speaking simultaneously makes it difficult for reporters to take

down all that is spoken. On such occasions, digital-recordings

prove to be quite useful, as reporters can ascertain from these

versions what was

inaudible or unintelligible when actual

proceedings took place. The Reporters’ copy is treated as the

authentic record of the proceedings. If a dispute arises as to the

correctness of the proceedings as recorded by the reporters, these

may be cross-checked with the digitally-recorded version and

correct position subsequently stated in the House for record.

D. Display of House Proceedings through LCDs

LCD screens will be installed at the suitable locations for live
display of the house proceedings during the sessions:

E. Digital Signature Certificates Digital Signature Certificates will be provided to all officers of the Chairman’sSecretariat for accessing the online application NeVA

and digitally signing the documents.

7.3. Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs)

A. Touch Screen Devices Touch Screen Devices will be provided to all MLAs for accessing

the online application NeVA and e-mail

facility. Video Conferencing accounts will also be activated for all MLAs/

MLCs.

B. IT Training Centre - NeVA SeVA Kendra (NSK)

A training centre (NeVA SeVA Kendra-NSK) for Information Technology will be established at Assembly/ Councilfor National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 35 of 44

imparting trainings and technical support regarding automation

of the Assembly/ Councilworking to the MLAs/MLCs

C. E- Facilitation Centre (Citizen-Centric)

e-Facilitation Centre (Citizen-Centric) will be established in NeVA SeVA Kendra of Assembly/ Council for computerizing the

day-to-day working between MLAs/MLCs and public. NSK

employees will uploading their data into online system and

monitoring various activities online such as:

▪ Data entry of public requests, demands, grievances,

letters received by MLAs manually from their respective

constituencies.

▪ Monitoring the status of public requests/grievances

submitted through MLAs

▪

Informing public about their application status by

sending SMS/emails

▪ Data entry of reports/documents relating to their

constituencies.

▪ Submitting assembly questions online

▪ Uploading tour programmes of MLAs/MLCs Ministers

▪ Monitoring development works in their constituencies

▪ Monitoring

various

activities

of

departments/undertakings in their constituencies

▪ Screening online replies received from departments

▪ Screening various reports laid in the House

▪ Scanning and printing facility

▪ Scanning and uploading of all old Acts/Bills presented

and passed in the Assembly/ Council

D. Digital Signature Certificates

1) Digital Signature Certificates will be provided

to all
MLAs/MLCsClass I officers, Branches and SPMU for accessing the
online application NeVA and digitally signing the documents.

7.4 Governor Office

A. Video Conferencing System National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 36 of 44

Video conferencing will be established at the Governor Office and

will be used mainly for Interactive remote participation by the Governor during the Assembly/ Councilsessions.

B.

Internet Connectivity through NIC Network High-Speed Internet Connectivity through NIC Network will be

provided in the office of Governor, State Name

C. WiFi Internet Connectivity through NIC Network Wi-fi Internet Connectivity through NIC Network will be provided

at the Governor Office.

8. PROJECT EXECUTION& ESTIMATED

COST

8.1 Connectivity

NICwillprovide Internet connectivity

(1 GBPS)

in Assembly/

Council Nameforsmooth working of

the National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) MMP.

8.2

IT/Non IT Hardware Requirement of the IT hardware has been derived based on the Survey (in certain cases additional 10% hardware has been added

as spare). The manpower to be hired for the project may be utilized

for installation of the same. For certain cases like fixing of tablets

in the house, agency like PWD may be engaged.

8.3 Setting Up Of Neva Seva Kendra As E-Learning Centers In order to provide training to all the Members of Assembly/

Counciland officials of the secretariat, NeVA Seva Kendra (NSK)

will be set up as e-Learning Centre. Regular training programme

on various ICT applications etc. will be conducted for the Members

and officials. The state of the art NeVA Seva Kendra (NSK) for eNational e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 37 of 44

Learning will have all modern computers based teaching aids as

well as Video-conferencing facility for remote learning.

8.4 Video Conferencing In addition to the VC facility at NEVA SEVA KENDRA / ELEARNING CENTERS, a dedicated Video Conferencing room will

also be established.

8.5 Electric Work / Air Conditioning Based on thesurvey of Assembly/ Counciland subsequently a

report from PWD, the cost ofElectric Work / Air Conditioning of Assembly/ Council Name , NeVASeva Kendra, VC Rooms, Server Room etc. is aroundRs XX,XX,XXX.

8.6 Civil Work / Furniture Based on the survey and subsequently a report from PWD, the cost

of civil work / furniture for NEVA SEVA KENDRA, Video Conferencing rooms, Legislative house, Server Room and Assembly/ Council Name is around Rs XX,XX,XXX.

8.7 Restructuring/Layout of LAN

As

per

the

surveyand

subsequently

a

report

from

NIC/NICSI,approxNo. XX of Local Area Network (LAN) nodes are

required in the Assembly/Council. The Total cost for establishment

of LANis around Rs. XX, XX, XXX.

8.8 Outline in broad terms project activities and timelines.

The project will be executed in two phases. Phase 1 is expected to

be completed in 6 months’ time and will be aimed at enabling the

system for members of the house and high priority branches.

Digitization of the old records will be done by the manpower hired

for the project in Phase 2.

Reform Area Activities Timeline(Phase)

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 38 of 44

1

1

Digital Video Recording, Storage Area Network and Archival System 1
WiFi Audio Headphones Cordless System Touch Screen Based Fixed Laptops
along with external Biometrics in
the Assembly House Computer Hardware for Employees
of Assembly/Council Secretariat Computer Hardware for technical
manpower Display Panels for Assembly House
and Important Sites
IT Training Centre at premise of Assembly/Council
NEVA SEVA KENDRA
Video Conferencing System at Assembly/Council Hi-Tech Committee Rooms Customization Software

 of Application

1

2

1

1

1

1

1
1 & 2

1 & 2

for System/Standard Software Words/Image Processing
IT
NeVA Room, VC Rooms,
Professionals, IT Training Centre Facilitation
and Constituency Centre
of Assembly/Council Electrical Wiring, LAN Cabling and Switches Digitization of old manual Record
(debates, bills, replies, committee
reports)

premise

at

1

1

2

Hardware Software Other Activities
like Civil Works,
Electrical Wiring/Cabling Digitization of old
manual Record National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 39 of 44

8.9 Manpower – Manpower requirement for the project is as below:-

SN Manpower Numbers Rate per Category

month Cost
per Month Cost Year

per Cost for 3
Years Base Web Administrator Data Administrator Senior Technical Support Professional Operation Manager Operation Assistant Network Operation Professional Technical Trainers Technical Support Professionals Multi Staff (MTS)

Tasking

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Total National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 40 of 44

8.10 Estimated Cost of the Project Estimated cost of the project has been worked out based on the

surveyand the unit costs have been derived from the DPR published by MoPA, GoI:

Estimated Cost of NeVA Implementation in State Legislature Name Quantity

SN

Components
/ Items Proposed Existing Req.

Unit Price (Rs)

Total Amount
(Rs)

Remarks/Gap Analysis **

1

Tablet devices

90000

0

xxx - MLAs

x - Speaker’s Desk

x - Secretary Desk

xx – Officials Desks

xx - 10% spare Grand Total: xxx

xx - As per Survey

xx - New Posts

xx - Media Centre
xx
-
Centre
xx – e-Learning

e-Facilitation

60000

0

x – SPMU

x Speaker /Deputy Speaker/LOP
and Secretary of the State

xx - Spare

 xxx (Total)

Total-existing =xxx

80000

150000

75000

5,000

25,000

2,00,000

5,00,000

2,000

97,000

65,00,000

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

2

Personal Computer

3

4

5

Laptop Plastic ID
cards Printers Scanners

6 UPS 500 VA

7 UPS 2 KVA

8

9

 UPS 5 KVA

 UPS 10 KVA

10 LAN Nodes Wi-fi Points(APs)

11

Access

12 WAN Link National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 41 of 44

Studio

13

VC
System Projector System
15 Digital Board

14

16 Display Panels

audio

17

18

Digital Recording Video Streaming
setup
19 Office Suite
e-Sign/DSC
Cost

20

21

Electrical Work/Airconditioning
estimated cost

22 Civil Work

6,00,000

3,00,000

3,00,000

1,50,000

3,50,000

3,00,000

15000

1450

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

23 Digital Archives

50,00,000

0

24

Manpower cost
for 36 months

25 Touchpad

26 Publicity
M.F
Printer

27

Sub Total Color

28

Contingency &
Misc. Fund

29 NICSI Charges Grand Total State/UT Government Share (0%/10%/40%)

Annual Expenditure on Manpower

3,10,00,000/
4,59,00,000

0

64,700

26,00,000

35,000

0

0

0

0

0

0

2 Nos. at each State Legislature (1 work as
backup)
No. of PCs + Laptops Members As Estimated by PWD
Electrical <
-
100
20,00,000 100- 200
Members30,00,000
200-300 Members -
50,00,000 > 300
Members- 1,00,00,000
 As
by Estimated
CPWD < 100
Members - 90,00,000
100- 200 Members1,20,00,000 200-300
-
Members
1,90,00,000
300
Members- 2,50,00,000
 Approximately
50.0
for each State Lakh Legislature
<
3,10,00,000/
Members-
>100
4,59,00,000 For Three Years

100 Members-

>

1 % of Project Cost

as

charges

NICSI
applicable Total Without NICSI
Cost
0

0

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 42 of 44

No provision has been added for Web Hosting /DR Site at NIC Cloud (Meghraj),
SMS Gateway Cost & Messaging Services. It will be borne by the CPMU, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India.

National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 43 of 44

8.12 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE:

The project is proposed to be implemented over a period of 2 years.

Activities

3

6

9

12

15

18

21

24

Months

I. ICT Infrastructure Implementation and Maintenance

1

2

3

4

5

1

2

Hardware Procurement Customization of Application Software System/Standard Software
for Words/Image Processing Civil Works, Electrical Wiring/Cabling Digitization of old manual Record

II
.

Risk/Change Management, Capacity Building and SPMU for 3
Years Risk/Change Management
&
Capacity Building Cost State Project Management Unit Facility National e-Vidhan Application DPR- Assembly/Council Name Page 44 of 44